# Introduction

Methodological advances are the lifeblood of the historical profession and the most recent significant advancement in methods has been the application of digital techniques in research.  According to the American Historical Association, “only three positions even mentioned digital history back in 2003–04, and 10 positions made a similar request in 2008–09” but in 2012 32 positions or 4 percent of all positions advertised “mentioned digital skills” as a requirement or benefit for applying academics.   When contrasted with the slow and even declining growth of the historical profession over the past several years, one can clearly see the incentive for graduate students to learn this new methodology. Moreover, the advent of digital methods is not merely a buzzword to get new PhDs hired but it also, like any other methodology, presents an opportunity to ask new questions of old sources, or at the very least approach old queries in new ways.

With this context in mind, this project is a blend of the old and new methodological approaches.  In a past reading of Cicero’s *Pro Caelio Oratio* in English, I had noticed that in the translation of Cicero’s most famous speech, the author often paired mentions of Clodia with the passive voice and Caelius with the active. Likewise, Caelius seemed to be the subject of the sentence, appearing before the verb, while Clodia seemed more often than not to after the verb.  My curiosity was peaked as to whether or not this was merely a feature of the translation itself, or if this trend was actually part of Cicero’s invective. It seemed within the realm of possibility that he intentionally used the active and passive voice to support or impugn as part of his rhetoric.  This also seemed the perfect time to apply digital methodologies in order to gain a better understanding of the methods themselves, as well as see the extent to which such an approach could help my analyses.
